# NYC Office Logistics

* Classroom is located at:

    22 West 38th Street  
    4th Floor  
    New York, NY 10018

* Office is open 24/7.
* Access after-hours
    * All students get keys which open the door to the front of the building
      and allows you to operate the elevator after-hours.
    * We collect a $50 deposit in cash when we give you the key fob; we give it back when
      you return the key. Bring exact cash; we don't have change.
* **No roof access**
    * Do not open the fire-escape door or climb out windows.
    * You will be expelled for doing this.
* **No visitors**
    * All visitors to App Academy must be let in to the office by
      a staff member. Do not let any visitor into the office by opening the 
      door for them, even if the visitor claims to have an appointment or a tour 
      scheduled. Ask them to kindly wait for App Academy staff to come to 
      retrieve them. It is a safety hazard to let strangers into App Academy.
    * All visits to App Academy are by pre-arranged scheduled appointment. If a
      visitor does not have an appointment with App Academy staff, they are not
      supposed to be here.
* **No alcohol in the office**
    * You may not bring or drink any alcohol in the office, with the exception 
      of App Academy-provided beverages during special events.
* Wireless
    * Do not use your own computer during class time!
    * The network on the workstations is `App Academy`, password `go_internet_go`
    * Don't torrent files (or anything else bandwidth intensive), or
      none of us can use the internet.
    * Don't stream music off the network; listen to music stored on
      your device or over the cell network if you want to listen to
      music on solo days.
    * **Please do not ever do this; $100 fine for these**.
* Kitchenette
    * There is a communal fridge; please be respectful.
      * Please label anything you put in there with the date you put it in and your name. 
        Anything in there with a date more than a week old will be discarded.
    * Water cooler, also dispenses hot water for tea, ramen, etc.
    * 1 microwave
    * 1 sink
      * Please don't leave anything in the sink. Anything left there will be discarded.
    * Coffee machine (we also supply coffee, milk, creamers, sweeteners)
      * If you pour yourself the last cup, please make a new batch for everybody #endlesscoffee  
    * Teas (Green, Earl Grey, Black Tea, Rooibos, Chai, Chamomille, Mint)
    * We have mugs here for everybody.
* Garbage
    * There are multiple garbage cans around the office. 
    * We recycle! There's a green bin for recycling **paper only** and a blue bin for recycling bottles.
* Cleaning
    * If you receive any personal packages, please cut up the box and
      put the cardboard in the blue paper recycling bin.
    * Cleaning service only comes once per week; we need to clean after
      ourselves.
    * In order to prevent the spread of disease, everybody will wipe down their workstation 
      (desk, keyboard, and mouse) with disinfectant wipes that we provide before starting 
      to work every day. This prevents the spread of viruses and bacteria by 99%+.
      [See this study for the science](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/09/08/virus-spread-study_n_5784428.html).
* Bathrooms
    * There are 2 single-person, all-gender restrooms.
    * Please **never** leave paper products on the sink countertop or floor.
* Office
    * The small offices are for staff use only. Please don't go in, but feel free to knock.
* Etc.
    * Smoking is prohibited in the office (including electronic cigarattes).
    * Only play music with headphones, do not blast out your music to the whole class.
    * The stairwell can be used to exit the space any time.
