## Introduction

Tell me about your background.

*You are applying to an online clothing boutique.*

## Your Toolbox

I see that you've used {Tool X}.  What did you like about it, and what did you dislike about it?

**NB**: Tool X can be any language, library, or framework that you have significant experience with. Examples include Rails, React, Redux, etc.  

Your answer should include the following:

- How you used this tool
- A specific example of something you thought the tool did really well/what you liked about using it
- A specific example of something you didn't like about using it (comparing it to other tools that do similar things is fine and encouraged)

## `myMap`

Implement the `map` function in JavaScript using recursion.

**Clarify if asked:**
- Either monkey patching the `Array` class or a standalone function is fine
- The return value of `map` should be an array of the mapped values 

**Hints:**
- What is the base case? 


```js
const map = (fn, [first, ...rest]) =>
	first === undefined ? [] : [fn(first), ...map(fn, rest)]
```

**Follow-up questions:**
- How does using the spread operator impact performance?
- What is the time complexity of the above solution? O(n^2)
  - Why?

The second solution saves space/time complexity by not creating/copying a new array in each recursive call.
```js
function myMap (array, callback) {
  const mappedArray = [];

  let idx = 0;
  const _pointerMap = () => {
    if (idx >= array.length) return;
    mappedArray.push(callback(array[idx]));
    idx++;
    _pointerMap();
  }

  _pointerMap();
  return mappedArray;
}
```

**Follow-up questions:**
- What is the benefit of closing over idx?

## Truckin'

Given a fleet of 50 trucks, each with a full fuel tank and a range of 100 miles, how far can you deliver a payload?

* You can transfer the payload from truck to truck.
* You can transfer fuel from truck to truck.
* All the payload will fit in one truck.

**Clarifications:**
- This does not need a programmatic solution, but is more of a problem-solving
  puzzle

**Hints:**
- What if we have 1 truck? 2 trucks? Keep going up to the general n-truck case.

### Solution

First, note that we have enough fuel for `50 * 100 == 5,000` truck
miles. Our problem is that we can't put all the fuel on a single
truck.

Instead, begin by driving all 50 trucks simultaneously. After two
miles, we will have burned `50 * 2 = 100` miles worth of fuel. This is
one trucks worth of fuel. Because we only have 49 trucks worth of fuel
left, it is unnecessary to drive all 50 trucks any more, because we
can fit all the fuel in 49 trucks.

Therefore, at the two mile mark, transfer all the fuel from one truck
to the other trucks. Leave an empty truck at the two mile mark. All
the other trucks are totally full of fuel.

Next, drive the remaining 49 trucks for `100/49` miles. After `100/49`
miles, we'll have burned another 100 miles worth of fuel, so we can
fit all the fuel in the remaining 48 trucks.

Continue like this until there is only one truck left, and it runs out
of fuel.

Let's calculate how many miles we can drive:

* 50 trucks of fuel: `100/50` miles
* 49 trucks of fuel: `100/49` miles
* 48 trucks of fuel: `100/48` miles
* ...
* 1 truck of fuel: `100/1` miles

Thus, you can then add up `100/50 + 100/49 + 100/48 + ... + 100/1`. This
is  ~449.9.


## Employees Query

In a SQL db, you have two tables, an employees table and a departments table. Employees belong to only one department. Write a SQL query that returns the number of employees per department.  

**Clarifications:**
- Column names are not important, just agree on something semantic

**Follow-up questions:**
- What happens if a deparment has no employees?
- Why do we need a `LEFT OUTER JOIN`?

```sql
SELECT
  department.name, COUNT(employees.id) as num_employees
FROM
  departments d
LEFT OUTER JOIN
  employees e ON e.department_id = d.id
GROUP BY
  department.id
```
