## Introduction

Tell me a bit about who you are.

*You are applying to an online clothing boutique.*

## Works Well with Others

What kind of work culture are you looking for?

Your answer should include:

- Something specific about a past work culture (which can include a/A).
- Your ideal work environment and why you would thrive.

**NB**: Avoid appearing as though you need an excessive amount of direction. Emphasize how those environments have enabled you to succeed.

## SQL + ActiveRecord

Write the following queries in SQL and in ActiveRecord:

* count all users
* count all active users
  * clarify it's up to them what 'active' means
* count all users who visited the site within a certain time period

```sql
SELECT
  COUNT(*)
FROM
  users;

User.count
```

```sql
SELECT
  COUNT(*)
FROM
  users
WHERE
  users.active = true;

User.where(:active => true).count
```

```sql
SELECT
  COUNT(*)
FROM
  users
WHERE
  users.last_login BETWEEN :time_period_start AND :time_period_end ;

User.where(last_login: (time_period_start..time_period_end)).count
```

## `Troll Toll`

You are on your way to visit your Grandma, who lives at the end of the valley.
* It's her birthday, and you want to give her the cakes you've made.
* Between your house and her house, you have to cross 7 bridges
  * There is a troll under every bridge!
  * Each troll insists that you have to give them half of the cakes you are carrying
    * They are kind trolls, so they each give you back a single cake

How many cakes do you have to leave home with to make sure that you arrive at Grandma's with exactly 2 cakes?

**Clarify if asked:**
- Trolls deal in integer division (no fractions)

### Solution
If you leave home with 2 cakes, you will never pay the troll toll.
You give them half of your cakes (one) and they give one cake back to you.

Assume we have `x` cakes,
- after the 1st bridge, we have `(x / 2) + 1 = (x + 2) / 2` cakes
- after the 2nd bridge, we have `(((x + 2) / 2) + 2) / 2 = (x + 2 + 4) / 4` cakes
- after the nth bridge, we have `(x + 2 + 4 + ... + 2^n) / 2^n` cakes

So, after the last bridge `(n=7)`, we have `(x + 2 + 4 + 8 + 16 + 32 + 64 + 128) / 128` cakes

We need to have two cakes at the end => `(x + 254) / 128 = 2`

## `transformable?`

Given a two strings, return whether the second can be transformed into the first
by removing characters.

Ex. `aabbaa` can be transformed into `aba` by removing `a`, `b`, and `a`

**Clarifications:**
- We can assume str2 always has greater or equal length than str1

**Hints:**
- What if str1 is the empty string?
- Start with the case where `str1 === str2` and then build up

```ruby
def transformable?(str1, str2)
  idx1 = 0
  idx2 = 0

  # while we still have characters to match in str 1
  while idx1 < str1.length
    # we have used all the characters in str2 and not matched str1
    return false if idx2 == str2.length
    
    # we have a match, so let's try to match it up
    if str2[idx2] == str1[idx1]
      idx1 += 1
    end

    idx2 += 1
  end
  
return true
end
```

```javascript
function transformable(str1, str2) {
  let idx1 = 0, idx2 = 0

  while (idx1 < str1.length) {
    if (idx2 === str2.length)
      return false

    if (str2[idx2] === str1[idx1])
      idx1++

    idx2++
  }

  return true
}
```
